Yes, this is a kind of blog, if you define blog as 'something published on the internet with an RSS feed.' But no, this is not a blog in the sense that [weblog.raganwald.com](http://weblog.raganwald.com) was a blog. Homoiconic is an experiment in publishing on a very small scale.

There is no advocacy on here. I frequent a few scuba diving forums. One annoying part of scuba culture is that it can be very polarizing. A bunch of people over here say there is only One True Way to dive, right down to using the exact same equipment as each other. Another bunch of people over there disregard the conventional wisdom and choose to dive solo, attracting criticism from young and old. The forums discovered a long time ago that running flame wars simply drove members away, so they have instituted "no trolling" zones within their boards, places where people can discuss the _how_ of solo diving, or sidemounting, or DIR, without getting into a battle of whether such a thing is a good idea or not.

My writing used to be heavily philosophical, with lots of advocacy and questioning. I still consider the _why_ of things much more meaningful than the how, but it's time to focus on the how rather than the why. I'm making this little writing place a "no trolling zone." I will try to avoid preaching, and the obvious corollary is that I will also avoid worrying about whether people agree or disagree. Instead, I will try to simply share little pieces of code as it comes to me.

Credit:

I originally set up a blog at homoiconic.com, but I spotted [David Baldwin's blog](http://github.com/bilson/blog/tree/master), and I knew right away that a blog that is about the how of code ought to be hosted on Github.